README.md, before:

# compojure

[CircleCI Builds](https://circleci.com/gh/skilbjo/compojure)

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/skilbjo/compojure/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/skilbjo/compojure/tree/master)
[![quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/skilbjo/compojure/status "Docker Repository on Quay")](https://quay.io/repository/skilbjo/compojure)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/skilbjo/compojure/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/skilbjo/compojure)

[![compojure_sfo](https://healthchecks.io/badge/80da65e9-ff8f-45f1-b75e-109790/dLkCKQze/compojure_sfo.svg)](https://healthchecks.io/badge/80da65e9-ff8f-45f1-b75e-109790/dLkCKQze/compojure_sfo.svg)
[![compojure_aws](https://healthchecks.io/badge/80da65e9-ff8f-45f1-b75e-109790/bKryWOrC/compojure_aws.svg)](https://healthchecks.io/badge/80da65e9-ff8f-45f1-b75e-109790/bKryWOrC/compojure_aws.svg)

## What

A webserver in LISP FTW.

<img src='dev-resources/img/ns-hierarchy.png' width=900>

## TODOs

- [X] Escape SQL injection (note: no decent sql injection escaping libaries out there); used `clojure.string/escape`
- [ ] Check if datasets conform to allowed map of datasets. Else, give a 404 instead of throwing an exception
- [ ] Seeing this error: `java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Java heap space`

Note: formerly valid sql injection: `http://localhost:8080/api/equities'select%201'--/latest`

## API

```bash
$ curl [host].duckdns.org/api/equities/latest

{"body":[{"open":148.45,"date":"2017-05-18T07:00:00Z","adj_volume":16101229.00,"adj_close":148.06, \
  "ticker":"FB","adj_low":147.96,"ex_dividend":0.00,"close":148.06,"volume":16101229.00,"high":149.39, \
  "adj_high":149.39,"split_ratio":1.00,"low":147.96,"adj_open":148.45,"dataset":"WIKI"}]}
```

## Deploy

Make sure the jks is in the prod servers:
    scp -P [port] java_key_store [user]@[bastion].:~

ssh to the prod servers, start tmux, and fire:
```bash
ssh [alias].
tm
deploy/bin/run-docker
```

### environment variables

```bash
export ro_jdbc_db_uri='jdbc:postgresql://[host]:[port]/[db_name]?sslmode=require&user=[user]&password=[pass]'
export quandl_api_key=''
# to run athena queries
export jdbc_athena_uri='jdbc:awsathena://athena.[region].amazonaws.com:[port]'
export s3_staging_dir='s3://aws-athena-query-results-[id]-[region]'
export aws_access_key_id=''
export aws_secret_access_key=''
```

## Debugging

- Did the jks made it onto the host ok? (`cat ~/[jks]; ls -la ~/[jks]`)
- Did the jks made it into the container ok? (`cat /[jks]; ls -la /[jks]`)
- Web server Listening on the port? (via another shell in the container)?
- If in a VM, port forwarding in the VM? (`netstat -tulpen` or `sockstat -l 4`)
- Port forwarding on the host? (`VBoxManage controlvm "default" natpf1 "tcp-port8443,tcp,,8443,,8443";`
- Latest docker image! (key!)

Did it work? (locally)
```bash
curl localhost:8080
curl --insecure localhost:8443
```

Did it work? (externally)
```bash
curl $(curl v4.ifconfig.co 2>/dev/null)
curl --insecure "https://$(curl v4.ifconfig.co 2>/dev/null)"
curl --insecure https://$(nslookup [host]-aws.duckdns.org | grep Address | tail -n1 | awk '{print $2}')
curl https://[host].duckdns.org
```

## Networking set up on AWS

### VPC

#### Network ACL
```
Protocol Scheme Port    Source    Allow/Deny
TCP      HTTP   (80)    0.0.0.0/0 ALLOW
TCP      HTTPS  (443)   0.0.0.0/0 ALLOW
```

#### Security Group
```
Protocol Scheme Port    Source    Allow/Deny
TCP      HTTP   (80)    0.0.0.0/0 ALLOW
TCP      HTTPS  (443)   0.0.0.0/0 ALLOW
```

### On the server
```bash
sudo iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080
sudo iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -p tcp --dport 443 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8443
```

Revert

```bash
sudo iptables -t nat -D PREROUTING 1
```

## Networking set up on FreeBSD (docker-machine / VirtualBox)

Need to portforward host to guest ports.

```bash
VBoxManage controlvm "default" natpf1 "tcp-port8080,tcp,,8080,,8080";
VBoxManage controlvm "default" natpf1 "tcp-port8443,tcp,,8443,,8443";
```
## Security

### Port scanning

```bash
sudo nmap -v -sS -A -T4 $(nslookup [host]-aws.duckdns.org | grep Address | tail -n1 | awk '{print $2}')
sudo nmap -sS -O $(nslookup [host]-aws.duckdns.org | grep Address | tail -n1 | awk '{print $2}')
nmap --top-ports 5000 -T4 -sC $(nslookup [host]-aws.duckdns.org | grep Address | tail -n1 | awk '{print $2}')
```

### Third party observations
- [https://observatory.mozilla.org/analyze.html?host=host.duckdns.org](https://observatory.mozilla.org/analyze.html?host=host.duckdns.org)

## Git

### Git remotes
```bash
git remote add pi-vpn ssh://[user]@[bastion].:43/~/deploy/git/compojure.git
git remote add pi-home ssh://[user]@[host]/~/deploy/git/compojure.git
```

### Pre-commit hook to update pom.xml
```bash
vim .git/hooks/pre-commit

#!/usr/bin/env bash

lein pom 2>&1 dev-resources/pom.xml
```

## lein

### Dependencies
```bash
lein deps :tree 2>deps 1>/dev/null && vim deps
```

### cljfmt
```bash
lein cljfmt check ; lein cljfmt fix
```

### kibits
```bash
lein kibit >tmp ; vim tmp && rm tmp
```

## Custom jdbc/query

```clojure
(defn- prepare-statement
  [sql params]
  (loop [sql sql
         kvs (map identity params)]
    (if (empty? kvs)
      sql
      (let [[[k v] & others] kvs]
        (recur (string/replace sql (str k) (str (jdbc/sql-value v)))
               others)))))

(defn query
  ([sql]
   (query sql {}))
  ([sql params]
   (with-open [conn (-> :ro-db-jdbc-uri env java.sql.DriverManager/getConnection)]
     (let [sql     (-> sql
                       (string/replace #";" "")
                       (string/replace #"--" "")
                       (string/replace #"\/" "")
                       (string/replace #"\/\*" "")
                       (string/replace #"\*\\" "")
                       (prepare-statement params))
           results (-> conn
                       (.createStatement)
                       (.executeQuery sql))]
       (jdbc/metadata-result results)))))
```

## Resources
- [ ] [http://markgandolfo.com/blog/2014/01/10/a-simple-blog-in-clojure/](http://markgandolfo.com/blog/2014/01/10/a-simple-blog-in-clojure/)

Commit message:

Add a script to renew certs; documentation for that

README.md, after:

# compojure

[CircleCI Builds](https://circleci.com/gh/skilbjo/compojure)

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/skilbjo/compojure/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/skilbjo/compojure/tree/master)
[![quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/skilbjo/compojure/status "Docker Repository on Quay")](https://quay.io/repository/skilbjo/compojure)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/skilbjo/compojure/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/skilbjo/compojure)

[![compojure_sfo](https://healthchecks.io/badge/80da65e9-ff8f-45f1-b75e-109790/dLkCKQze/compojure_sfo.svg)](https://healthchecks.io/badge/80da65e9-ff8f-45f1-b75e-109790/dLkCKQze/compojure_sfo.svg)
[![compojure_aws](https://healthchecks.io/badge/80da65e9-ff8f-45f1-b75e-109790/bKryWOrC/compojure_aws.svg)](https://healthchecks.io/badge/80da65e9-ff8f-45f1-b75e-109790/bKryWOrC/compojure_aws.svg)

## What

A webserver in LISP FTW.

<img src='dev-resources/img/ns-hierarchy.png' width='900' />

## TODOs

- [X] Escape SQL injection (note: no decent sql injection escaping libaries out there); used `clojure.string/escape`
- [X] Check if datasets conform to allowed map of datasets. Else, give a 404 instead of throwing an exception
- [ ] Seeing this error: `java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Java heap space`

Note: formerly valid sql injection: `http://localhost:8080/api/equities'select%201'--/latest`

## API

```bash
$ curl [host].duckdns.org/api/equities/latest

{"body":[{"open":148.45,"date":"2017-05-18T07:00:00Z","adj_volume":16101229.00,"adj_close":148.06, \
  "ticker":"FB","adj_low":147.96,"ex_dividend":0.00,"close":148.06,"volume":16101229.00,"high":149.39, \
  "adj_high":149.39,"split_ratio":1.00,"low":147.96,"adj_open":148.45,"dataset":"WIKI"}]}
```

## Deploy

Make sure the jks is in the prod servers:
    scp -P [port] java_key_store [user]@[bastion].:~

ssh to the prod servers, start tmux, and fire:
```bash
ssh [alias].
tm
deploy/bin/run-docker
```

### environment variables

```bash
export ro_jdbc_db_uri='jdbc:postgresql://[host]:[port]/[db_name]?sslmode=require&user=[user]&password=[pass]'
export quandl_api_key=''
# to run athena queries
export jdbc_athena_uri='jdbc:awsathena://athena.[region].amazonaws.com:[port]?s3_staging_dir=s3://aws-athena-query-results-[id]-[region]&query_results_encryption_option=SSE_S3&user=$aws_access_key_id&password=$aws_secret_access_key'
```

## Rotating SSL certificates
<https://letsencrypt.org/> certificates are only good for 3 months; as such,
this neccessitates a periodic rotation of certificates.

<img src='dev-resources/img/expired_certificate.png' width='400' />

The SSL termination hosted by pfsense is automated automated by the pfsense
ACME package's cron job, which runs at `16 3 * * *`. If for some reason it
hasn't renewed, ssh onto pfsense and run the command:
`/usr/local/pkg/acme/acme_command.sh "renewall"`. It may fail because it can't
write a txt record to a duckdns subdomain. The fix is confirm the subdomains
for the certificate and duckdns are the same. Also confirm the api keys for the
various subdomains. After that, HAproxy may restart, and the new certificate
will be live: minimal effort!

<img src='dev-resources/img/renewed_automatically.png' width='400' />

For externally hosted sites, run the
`dev-resources/ssl-certs-renew-externally-hosted` script. You just need to be
on the VPN so `pfsense.` resolves. The script can be run as a shell script, or
each command individually/interactively. After completion, log in to the
external server's tmux session and restart the server.

<img src='dev-resources/img/external_renewal.png' width='400' />

## Debugging

- Did the jks made it onto the host ok? (`cat ~/[jks]; ls -la ~/[jks]`)
- Did the jks made it into the container ok? (`cat /[jks]; ls -la /[jks]`)
- Web server Listening on the port? (via another shell in the container)?
- If in a VM, port forwarding in the VM? (`netstat -tulpen` or `sockstat -l 4`)
- Port forwarding on the host? (`VBoxManage controlvm "default" natpf1 "tcp-port8443,tcp,,8443,,8443";`
- Latest docker image! (key!)

Did it work? (locally)
```bash
curl localhost:8080
curl --insecure localhost:8443
```

Did it work? (externally)
```bash
curl $(curl v4.ifconfig.co 2>/dev/null)
curl --insecure "https://$(curl v4.ifconfig.co 2>/dev/null)"
curl --insecure https://$(nslookup [host]-aws.duckdns.org | grep Address | tail -n1 | awk '{print $2}')
curl https://[host].duckdns.org
```

## Networking set up on AWS

### VPC

#### Network ACL
```
Protocol Scheme Port    Source    Allow/Deny
TCP      HTTP   (80)    0.0.0.0/0 ALLOW
TCP      HTTPS  (443)   0.0.0.0/0 ALLOW
```

#### Security Group
```
Protocol Scheme Port    Source    Allow/Deny
TCP      HTTP   (80)    0.0.0.0/0 ALLOW
TCP      HTTPS  (443)   0.0.0.0/0 ALLOW
```

### On the server
```bash
sudo iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080
sudo iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -p tcp --dport 443 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8443
```

Revert

```bash
sudo iptables -t nat -D PREROUTING 1
```

## Networking set up on FreeBSD (docker-machine / VirtualBox)

Need to portforward host to guest ports.

```bash
VBoxManage controlvm "default" natpf1 "tcp-port8080,tcp,,8080,,8080";
VBoxManage controlvm "default" natpf1 "tcp-port8443,tcp,,8443,,8443";
```
## Security

### Port scanning

```bash
sudo nmap -v -sS -A -T4 $(nslookup [host]-aws.duckdns.org | grep Address | tail -n1 | awk '{print $2}')
sudo nmap -sS -O $(nslookup [host]-aws.duckdns.org | grep Address | tail -n1 | awk '{print $2}')
nmap --top-ports 5000 -T4 -sC $(nslookup [host]-aws.duckdns.org | grep Address | tail -n1 | awk '{print $2}')
```

### Third party observations
- [https://observatory.mozilla.org/analyze.html?host=host.duckdns.org](https://observatory.mozilla.org/analyze.html?host=host.duckdns.org)

## Git

### Git remotes
```bash
git remote add pi-vpn ssh://[user]@[bastion].:43/~/deploy/git/compojure.git
git remote add pi-home ssh://[user]@[host]/~/deploy/git/compojure.git
```

### Pre-commit hook to update pom.xml
```bash
vim .git/hooks/pre-commit

#!/usr/bin/env bash

lein pom 2>&1 dev-resources/pom.xml
```

## lein

### Dependencies
```bash
lein deps :tree 2>deps 1>/dev/null && vim deps
```

### cljfmt
```bash
lein cljfmt check ; lein cljfmt fix
```

### kibits
```bash
lein kibit >tmp ; vim tmp && rm tmp
```

## Custom jdbc/query

```clojure
(defn- prepare-statement
  [sql params]
  (loop [sql sql
         kvs (map identity params)]
    (if (empty? kvs)
      sql
      (let [[[k v] & others] kvs]
        (recur (string/replace sql (str k) (str (jdbc/sql-value v)))
               others)))))

(defn query
  ([sql]
   (query sql {}))
  ([sql params]
   (with-open [conn (-> :ro-db-jdbc-uri env java.sql.DriverManager/getConnection)]
     (let [sql     (-> sql
                       (string/replace #";" "")
                       (string/replace #"--" "")
                       (string/replace #"\/" "")
                       (string/replace #"\/\*" "")
                       (string/replace #"\*\\" "")
                       (prepare-statement params))
           results (-> conn
                       (.createStatement)
                       (.executeQuery sql))]
       (jdbc/metadata-result results)))))
```

## Resources
- [ ] [http://markgandolfo.com/blog/2014/01/10/a-simple-blog-in-clojure/](http://markgandolfo.com/blog/2014/01/10/a-simple-blog-in-clojure/)
